<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) godot-rust; Bromeon and contributors.
  ~ This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public
  ~ License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this
  ~ file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
-->

# Migrating to v0.3

This chapter will guide you through the changes from godot-rust version 0.1 to 0.2. See also our [November dev update][dev-november-2024]
for a feature overview, and our [changelog][changelog] for a detailed list of modifications. Breaking changes are marked as such in the
changelog, and you can navigate to the respective PRs to get in-depth information.

```admonish tip title="Smooth transition"
To reduce the friction, we recommend first updating to the latest patch release of the current minor version, before switching to the new 
minor version. Many changes are announced early in the form of deprecation warnings, which contain instructions on how to switch to newer APIs.

You can update your `Cargo.toml` to the latest patch release by running:
~~~bash
cargo update -p godot
~~~
Once you have addressed all deprecation warnings, you can update to the new minor version:
~~~bash
cargo upgrade -p godot
~~~
```

## Geometric APIs

Several geometric APIs have seen slight updates in terms of naming and semantics.

- `Aabb`, `Rect2`, `Rect2i` ([#1001](https://github.com/godot-rust/gdext/pull/1001))
  - `has_point` -> `contains_point`
  - `has_area` -> `has_surface`
  - `intersection` -> `intersect`
  - `intersect_ray`: added in addition to `intersects_ray`, returning intersection point
- `Basis` + `Quaternion` ([#1035](https://github.com/godot-rust/gdext/pull/1035))
  - `to_euler` -> `get_euler` + `get_euler_with`
  - `to_quat` -> `get_quaternion`
  - `from_quat` -> `from_quaternion`
  - `scale` -> `get_scale`
  - `new_looking_at` -> `looking_at`

The main idea behind those changes:
- Use `intersect` for methods returning the intersection, and `intersects` for boolean checks.
- Use `contains` for containment checks, and `has` for checking the presence of a property.
- Use `get_` in situations where only a part is extracted (e.g. `get_euler` instead of `to_euler`, because Basis has non-rotation components).
- Be closer to Godot terminology.


## Signals

While v0.3 brings [large-scale changes to signals][signals], they are almost fully backwards compatible.
The only breaking change is that declaring `#[signal]` now requires the class to have a `Base<T>` field.

Related, the `ConnectFlags` enum has been reclassified as a bitfield rather than regular enum. This enables `|` operations, among others.


## Entry point

In case you use `#[gdextension(entry_point = ...)]`, the key has now been renamed to `#[gdextension(entry_symbol = ...)]`. This is consistent
with the key name in the `.gdextension` file.


[signals]: ../register/signals.md
[changelog]: https://github.com/godot-rust/gdext/blob/master/Changelog.md#v020

